# Welcome to my blog!

I will be gone from home for quite some time, and I would love to be able to call each and every one of you on a regular schedule, but with the time difference and life, I don't think it will be possible. So... a blog!

For those of you who I forgot to explain my trip to, or if you want a refresher here's what my current itinerary looks like:

China for 10 days-- with the Program on the Environment trip focusing on Sustainability in the US and China. This program is what started the planning of this whole trip, so a huge shout out to the PoE and Kristi Straus for making it happen. I am so excited to learn more about China's sustainability policies from students and professors at Tsinghua, as it is one of two top schools in China. I don't know exactly what I'll be doing in at the site visits and with our free time, but we have a busy schedule each day. I'm also really looking forward to visiting the Great Wall of China and the Forbidden City, especially after learning about the Great Wall in my architecture history course this quarter.

Australia for two weeks-- This portion of the trip is not affiliated with a UW program, but I will be staying with someone that Fi met on her gap year, so I won't be entirely alone. I cannot wait to connect to the climbing community in AUS, and I'll need some time to warm up after China! (Also I've wanted to go to Australia since I was about 5 years old.) If anyone has recomendaitons of things to do around Melbourne, let me know!

Thailand for three months-- Growing up and living in the the PNW my whole life, I've never had a sunny winter, and I'm very excited about being in Thailand for this winter quarter. I am going with a CHID program titled Gender, Human Rights, and Livelihood in Exile. I am expecting this to be a truly eye-opening experience, especially when we go on site visits to a refugee camp, rural villigas, and different NGOs that specialize in rehabilitation of individuals that have been sex trafficked.

There will most likely be a few additional stops, and I will definitely need to leave Thailand at some point to get my visa exemption renewed, so maybe I'll stop by Vietnam, Cambodia, or Laos. Again, any recommendations are welcome. 

Thank you for taking the time to keep up with me, let me know if you read this! 




## Chiang Mai, Thailand
**January** 
**7** 
Traveling is getting easier. I'm still bad at figuring out which cardinal direction I'm facing, but I'm getting better at finding landmarks (or in Chiang Mai, the giant mountains in the west). I still wander the isles of grocery stores for too long trying to find the best snacks and deals on toilet paper, but I'm getting better at being decisive when ordering food. I still miss Seattle, but I'm finding comfort in new routines. 

Especially compared to Beijing, I already feel more comfortable here. Even though I think I lost all of the Thai I learned last quarter, it is encouraging that I recognize some of the numbers and letters. There is a lot more English on the shop signs and almost everyone I've met speaks some English, so it will be much easier to navigate.

I tried to talk to everyone in my program today, at least for a few mintues, and while there are a few people that I have gravitated towards already, I'm going to try my best to continue to reach out to everyone. Each person is bringing an entirely different background, set of interests and worries to the progam, and I want to be able to engage with everyone. So far, people have been engaged and inclusive, even with being jetlagged, so once people get settled I think we'll do just fine.


## Melbourne, Australia
**6**
Ok, so the online journal doesn't work as well when you don't have consitent WiFi and you don't understand computers. I am going to try my best to get this working again while I'm in Thailand, I should have plenty of time to figure it out. 
I am flying out of Melbourne today, and I can't believe that two weeks has gone by so quickly. I became so comfortable with the city, the trams, and the people in such a short amount of time, and I will be back again I'm sure. My trip would not have been the same had I not been able to stay with two of Fiona's friends she met last year while traveling, and I am incredibly grateful for their hospitality and kindness. There have been so many kind people who have gone out of their way to make me feel comfortable during this trip, and I hope that I will be able to pay it forward while I am in Thailand and when I go back to the States. Not everyone is out there to get you, there are people who will offer you to go to the beach with them or eat a meal at their table and they truly do not expect anything in return. 

In the spirit of the new year and giving thanks, I want to do my best to live with more enthusiasm this year. I read [this article](https://www.outsideonline.com/2378571/make-2019-year-maximum-enthusiasm) from Outside online and it hit on something that I've been thinking about a lot in the past few weeks.  I have been experiencing so many new things, I want to make sure I stop and notice when I'm doing something that is meaningful/exciting/different. I went to the beach yesterday. The beach! In Janurary! In Australia! If that's not exciting I don't know what is, and even still, there were so many people who I saw that were arguing with a loved one, rushing to eat a quick meal, or just totally checked out on their phones. If I'm able to notice those special moments, I think it will help me put the more negative moments into a better perspective. Sure, my house in Seattle flooded and I will not be able to go home to the house that I had started to feel comfortable in, but no one got hurt, and the loss seems so much more managable when I recognize all the positive change that is coming to me. 




## China

**December**
**15**
It took fourteen years to build the Forbidden City. 14! It is absolutely breathtaking and the amount of work that went into it must have been tremendous. Our tour guide said that there were about one million workers who helped build it, and even that seems like a small number for the monumental effort. Everywhere you look there is incredibly detailed metal work, carving and painting, not to mention the fact that the entire thing was built using only wood joints and no nails or other reinforcements. We were only able to walk through a small portion of the city, but we could've easily spent the entire day, or week, there. I hadn't looked at any pictures of the city before I went in, which made it better in my opinion. Everything I was seeing was new, and I think it is safe to say that it was one of the most incredible experiences of my life. During lunch we were reflecting on what kind of life the emperor would have had in the palace, and one of my professors brought up that she feels like she lives better than any king or emperor. She lives on a farm on Whidbey Island and feels as though she has so much abundance and comfort that she really does live better than royalty. I think that her gratitude for life is due in large part to her mindset, and if more people appreciate the things they have that we could all feel more gratitude towards our lives and experiences. I'm trying to not take so many things for granted, but it's hard to notice the things that bring you joy until they are no longer able to. Tonight I wound up washing all of my clothes in our sink, which was cathartic in its own way but really made me appreciate washing clothes in a machine. Traveling amplifies the absence of simple pleasures like cold, un-bottled drinking water or washing your hands with warm water and soap, but I feel like it also amplifies your gratitude for the things you do have. 

**14**
I am 20 years old! It is the first birthday I have ever spent outside of the US, and I hope it is not the last. It wasn't a traditional birthday (who gets to see a solar power site and an e-waste facility on their birthday?!) but I still got a cake and even a birthday crown. Despite having just met most of the people on my trip, they made me feel so loved and special. We went out for drinks after a fantastic vegetarian dinner, and I got to experience my first nightclub. I can't wait to see what else is in store for the trip and the rest of the year, I have a feeling it's going to be a good one. 

**13** 
Today might have been my favorite day of the trip so far, depsite, or maybe partly because of, the fact that I took my last final this morning. I think it went as well as it could have gone, and now that Fall quarter is over, I feel like I can truly focus on being in Beijing. A few of us went out after dinner tonight, venturing outside of the gates of the university without the entire group for the first time. There are so many moving lights in the city, it's a bit different than the quiet calm of the lights on the construction cranes back home. 


**12**
"What countries would you live in if you had the opportunity to live abroad?" How can I say no to any opportunity? I feel like I can't pass anything up. Every path seems like a chance to learn and grow, and what an exciting place to be. Who knows what the next few years will hold? I can't limit myself to just Seattle or Washington or even the US. I feel the travel bug starting to take root, I want to experince it all. I am grateful that my trip continues after these 10 days, but I'm also grateful that I have "home" to go back to. Home is starting to take on new meaning for me, it's no longer my house in Bellingham, , and it's not limited to my house in Seattle. Home is where my people are, with those who know me and can remind me of who I am. 

Our first field trip today was to San Yuan Food Cooperation, which is a dairy processing facility that supplies milk products (milk, cheese, yogurt) to Beijing. The production lines were fascinating and reminded me of the How Stuff Works videos- I need to watch those again. I felt conflicted about it being a dairy operation though, after learning so much more about the dairy industry and the environmental impacts of it. They do have a milk subscription service that delivers glass bottles every morning and recycles the bottles, so they are at least taking some steps towards reusing resources. I had a conversation with one of the Tsinghua students about how milk is not a traditional food in Chinese culture and that has only recently become popular. I wonder if the dairy industry is subsidized in China and much as it is in the US, or why it is becoming more popular. 

The second field trip was to the Gaobeidian Wastewater Treatment plant. This trip was similar to the environmental monitoring site in that it was not very accessible to English speakers. We figured out a way to scan text with WeChat (that app can do everything!) so we were able to read some of the infographics. It seems like if you could understand the Mandarin explanations for things that it would be a valuable experince, they had two floors of educational information that could be recieved by a wide audience. In the US we have a few facilities like that, but it seems like they have more of these kinds of programs here. What does this say about the top- down nature of their environmental movement versus our bottom up movement?


**11**
We started our day today with a history lecture by Lu Yang, an esteemed professor from Peking University. We got a brief overview of the history of Chang'an, and the different emperors that came before Beijing as we know it today. I think the most interesting thing that we learned was the ways in which written language was used for propaganda, and how important it was in upholding the beliefs and power of the emperors. // We went to the school cafeteria for lunch, which was incredubly packed and full of all different kinds of food. I decided to take it easy and not order food on my own with no Chinese, and instead just went to the counter where you pick up plates of whatever you want. There options spanned the length of an entire wall of the open room, but I got rice, bok choy, broccoli and tofu, which was all good but not as hot as I would've liked. At our table we were talking about how efficient the system seems to be and how something of that nature would most likely not work at UW. It seems like that they have a lot more options than us in terms of buying fresh food at a market or eating a plethora of things in the cafeteria, so I wonder what the other universities in the area have in way of dining halls.  

Our field trip today was to an environmental monitoring program, which was seemed like it would be a valuable experience, but was not English-friendly. One of the native Chinese speakers in our group was trying to translate everything for us, but it was hard to not be able to understand all of the infographics on the walls. We were trying to learn about air pollution I think, but to be honest most all of it went over my head and I didn't get a lot out of the trip. I have been realizing more and more just how difficult it is to feel interested in something when you are unable to understand the language.

One thing that seems to be very easy to appreciate is the food, and we continued our trend of huge meals. We had dinner at a hot pot place, but we got there an hour before we needed to, so a group of us went out with our professor in search of a bar. Someone in the group thought they knew of a place to go, but the map led us to a random hole-in-the-wall store that seemed to only be selling Chinese medicine. The looks that we were getting from people were pretty entertaining, but it would've been nice if we could've gotten somewhere. It's challenging for me to led someone else take on the navigation and just hope for the best! The dinner itself was great, again, but I do not think I can sustain this level of eating. We had four types of tofu and tons of veggies in a mushroom broth, and had fruit and sesame mochi bites for dessert. The restaraut is apparently known for its service, and I can see why. They had one man that stretched noodles for us as we were watching, and a performance from mask-changing man (he was wearing an elaborate looking costume and would change out his masks without using his hands? not really sure the origins or point). It's a great opportunity to get to know the people on our trip and get to think more on the experiences from the day. 


**10**
We had breakfast in the hotel, and I'm still not comfortable with the huge meals, but I think I'll get used to it soon enough! I had a taro bun, sesame balls, a steamed bun, shredded carrot, corn soup and what seemed like zuchinni in gravy. I don't understand how the Chinese eat so much and how most of them seem to stay fairly healthy. We haven't been snacking but we've had three big meals a day. I think it has something to do with how cold it is, or at least I'll blame it on that for now. 

We went to a classroom on campus and got to meet out Tsinghua classmates, most of whom are actually exchange students who are just spending a few months in Beijing. In my small group one boy is from Japan and one is from Korea, so I think we'll have a lot to talk about in our final presentation (the topic is tbd but we might dive into the demand and solutions for disposable plastic products). I can't imagine studying abroad at such a prestigious university, I would feel inadequate and completely out of my comfort zone. One of the the UW students was trying to explain how hard it is to get into a good university, and it made me incredibly thankful that I did not grow up here. Students all take one test and get ranked, then they can choose which school to go to based on that rank. At dinner, one of the Tsinghua students was explaining that there are different grading standards for the different exchange countries, which might make it a bit easier to do well in courses, but not by that much.  Is there a way to standardize education in order to accommodate for language barriers or influences? I feel like there is no way to completely bridge the gap between entirely different systems, and that maybe we shouldn't. 


**9** 
On the plane, I've still got about 6 hours left to go. I've already taken a nap, watched Crazy Rich Asians, and tried to walk around the plane without running into every person along the way. It still hasn't quite hit me that when I land, I'll be in China and I won't go back to Seattle until March. I'm going to miss so many people, events and memories while I'm gone, but I know that I'm going to have an incredible time and learn so many things that I didn't even know I needed to learn.



<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTE4ODQ0ODcyMzBdfQ==
-->
